[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
There was a quote
by Mahatma Gandhi that read,
"The greatness of a nation
can be judged by the way
the animals are treated."
And this speaks to
me, as our treatment
of those who can't
speak for themselves
is the degree of our
civility and compassion.
Linda Bender has
spent her lifetime
communicating with and
learning from animals,
and she's here to
teach us about how
we can start going into
better union with them
by her new book,
"Animal Wisdom."
Welcome, Linda.
It's good to see you again.
>>LINDA BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And your book
is finally out there.
It wasn't out last
time we spoke.
>>BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so for people who
didn't see our first interview,
let's go back--
way, way, way back.
I'm regressing you
back to the age of six,
when your story really began.
So please tell us
about what happened
when you were six years old.
Because you like animals
better than people,
and you're trying to get your
mind around liking people
as much as animals.
[LAUGHTER]
>>BENDER: I'm getting there.
Yes.
It's all a process.
But I was asked once
after a lecture--
I've been teaching about
the sacred relationship
between humans and
animals for a long time.
And I was asked once, when
did your relationship begin?
And I thought about it and
I really could not remember.
So upon contemplating that,
I thought back to a time
when I was about six.
And I was awakened in my
sleep, at my parents' home,
by the sound of screaming.
So we got up, got a flashlight.
We went outside.
And there, quivering on the
second tier of our lawn,
was a tiny bunny.
And obviously--
>>REGINA: Oh, and those
screams are human.
>>BENDER: Oh, it was curdling.
So mom wasn't around
and this little creature
had obviously had some mishap
with another, larger being.
So I scooped up
that little bunny,
and brought it inside, and
decided this was my job.
I was going to take
care of this bunny.
I was going to save this bunny.
So I put the bunny
here on my chest,
and we lied down on my
parents' kitchen floor.
And I said, I'm going
to stay awake all night
and I'm going to hold
this bunny because it's
going to hear my breathing
and feel my heartbeat.
And what happened to
me at that moment--
and I have a
distinct recollection
of feeling great love,
really for the first time
in my young life.
And it swirled around me,
encompassing me and that bunny.
And I realized that
there was something
going on here very strong,
bigger than both of us.
I didn't understand it, but I
knew that rescuing that bunny
gave a meaning to
my little life.
And thus began a very
deep and strong bond
between me and animals.
>>REGINA: Did the bunny make it?
>>BENDER: The bunny was
with me in the morning.
Because I said I wasn't
going to fall asleep,
which of course I did.
But it was still
here in the morning.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>BENDER: And it made
it and we released it.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>BENDER: So--
>>REGINA: That's
one of the things
I-- On a spiritual level--
and I know that-- I've
interviewed people about this.
I've looked into
the subject a lot--
that I still don't
understand, which is--
and we're going to talk about
a little later-- the nature
of the predatory aspect
of the animal kingdom.
I live in the desert, and
I cannot stand it at night.
I have to wear earplugs all the
time because the coyotes are
killing the bunnies.
And the screams at night--
it just is devastating,
like, what is the sense in that?
>>BENDER: Right.
Right.
>>REGINA: And you've had you've
had some communication there,
to explain that.
>>BENDER: I have.
I have.
And humans really have
a misunderstanding
about the prey-predator
relationship.
And it's--
>>REGINA: Well,
let's just go-- we
were going to talk
about it a little later.
Just go there now, and we'll
then get into the rest of it.
>>BENDER: Sure.
And I do address
this in the book
because I've spent a great deal
of time working in the trenches
with wildlife, and even as
a kid, as you're saying,
out understanding.
And I agree.
It's difficult.
But the prey-predator
relationship is a mystery.
None of us-- no one knows why
prey-predator relationship
exists.
And even as humans,
we are animals.
We forget that
we're animals too.
And we're also part of the
prey-predator relationship.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We are.
>>BENDER: Except that what
we do to our prey animals,
we now hide behind closed doors
because-- that's another issue,
and we can discuss
it if you would like.
>>REGINA: I would like to.
>>BENDER: And it's a
deep concern of mine,
how we treat our prey animals.
>>REGINA: OK.
First of all, what
has the animal kingdom
relayed to you, in
the larger field,
about the nature of that
predator-prey relationship?
And then I want to hear
about this cloaked interface
humanity has.
>>BENDER: Well, what I
have learned and observed--
I've been in Africa, and
I have watched and seen
prey-predator relationship.
And I have I have watched
lions, for example-- how they
treat their prey, what they do.
And my understanding, and my
observations, and many others--
it's a sacred exchange.
It is not taking.
It is giving and receiving.
There's a distinction
there between the grabbing
and taking and
mutilating as opposed
to the sacred bond of, all life
dies to give other life, life.
It's all a dying and a rebirth.
And this is the relationship.
And there is a sacred bond
between a prey and a predator.
For example in the lions,
they kill their prey.
And they share that prey
and they stay with it.
They stay with it.
They share it.
They honor it.
And to observe it, you
are pulled into the more
sacred aspect of it.
Granted, it's not something
we enjoy watching.
All life wants to stay alive.
Don't get me wrong.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BENDER: All animals
want to survive.
But they are-- let
me say that animals
exist in a reality that is more
closely connected to source.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And I understand that, but
I think where I get hung up,
on an energetic level, is
that there is virtually always
a massive amount of fear
involved in the process.
>>BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: One or the other is
going to experience great fear.
And I've always--
I think part of me
wonders why fear has to
be part of this process.
Because if you
protect your life,
you're going to be afraid
of losing your life.
If you're a fish, you're going
to struggle against the line.
If you're a bunny--
well, I understand
bunnies are different.
They actually scream
and actually lose
consciousness, is what I've
understood, before they're
aware of being torn.
>>BENDER: Right.
Right.
And studies have shown--
>>REGINA: And maybe
there's a grace
after the fear in all of this.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
And even with humans--
they say humans
who've experienced extreme
trauma and they've survived,
they say that there is a certain
shutdown-- that the body takes
care of itself.
But in that world
where animals exist,
where they are more closely
connected to source,
and they understand
more the prey-predator
give and receive-- still,
if that was just OK,
then they'd all roll
over belly up instead
of fighting to exist.
Fear is important.
Fear kicks in the
fight or flight.
We all want to stay alive.
All creatures want
to stay alive.
But when they know
their time is over, it--
>>REGINA: There's
a sense of knowing.
>>BENDER: There is a sense.
>>REGINA: And same with
human beings-- car accidents.
I understand that.
I mean, you're jettisoned
out of the body.
There's fear right
before, perhaps,
and a primal aspect of
the being, the emotions,
and so forth.
And then there's no
real connection anymore.
>>BENDER: But I really
think that humans,
before we look down on the
prey-predator relationship
in the wild--
>>REGINA: We need
to look at our part.
Yeah.
>>BENDER: We need to look
at what we are doing.
And now, there are,
I believe, 19 states
who've made it against the
law to go to slaughterhouses
and take film-- footage.
Paul McCartney once said if
slaughterhouses had glass
walls, no one would eat meat.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Absolutely.
>>BENDER: The
industry-- I've been
saying for many, many
years-- more than I want
to think about-- it's not good.
And it's worse.
It's something that really
needs to be addressed.
>>REGINA: Completely inhumane.
>>BENDER: It's
completely inhumane.
>>REGINA: And it's
not just that.
It's also-- I did an
interview in England
recently with Lady
Tracy Worcester
on the subject of pig farming.
And someone did manage to
get into one of those housing
projects for pigs.
It was so depressing.
It was hard to even
do the interview.
And that's even
while they're living.
It's not just the killing.
It's the way they're
treated in life.
>>BENDER: Oh, no.
That's part of the problem.
And with pigs, they're
not called pigs.
They're called units,
because how else could we do
what we do to those creatures?
>>REGINA: Especially
knowing their intelligence.
>>BENDER: And feel
pain and feel fear.
Their lives are miserable.
So-- yeah.
>>REGINA: I mean,
so we really-- I
mean, part of this
conversation-- this
isn't where I was going to
go with it at this point,
but we're here.
>>BENDER: Exactly.
We're here.
>>REGINA: And so part
of it really comes down
to our own self responsibility.
It's not a matter of
whether a person wants
to be a vegan or primal.
It's a matter of the
consciousness with which
the various food sources--
animal, protein, or otherwise--
are raised, and that
includes plants.
>>BENDER: Exactly.
Because it isn't
that we eat meat.
I do, of course, recommend
a vegetarian diet.
I've been a vegetarian for
many years and vegan, as well.
But with our population
and-- it's unsustainable
to continue to eat
meat, the way we
are eating meat,
in any humane way.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
It's the way it's being done.
And I know-- I mean,
those are decisions
I had to make as a
20-year vegetarian who
had to go back to animal
protein for health purposes
because I was only a vegetarian
for spiritual purposes for all
those years-- two decades.
And you have to really
do your homework
and you have to find
the local farmer who
raises their animals--
they're pasture grazed.
And you don't have to know
their name necessarily,
but it's really good--
for anybody watching this,
you can find this
at farmers markets
around the world,
where people are now
bringing the animals
that they raise in,
where they'll do--
usually in this case,
of the one in the little
country town I was in,
they would literally
shoot them while they
were grazing-- just a swift
shot, and that was done.
So the fear didn't have
a chance to set in.
>>BENDER: Right.
>>REGINA: And as
even ugly as that is,
it's still more humane than
what you're talking about.
>>BENDER: Right.
And in my book, I
talk about this.
It's part of the reciprocity
of our relationship.
What we do to animals,
we do to ourselves.
That is nature.
That is life.
And so when we eat the
flesh of an animal that
has been pumped full of
hormones and antibiotics
and whose body is
riddled with toxins,
stress hormones--
all of this-- and we
eat the flesh of that animal,
that becomes part of our body.
And that is not my opinion.
>>REGINA: And it's
very concentrated.
I mean, granted, we're
eating all that garbage
in the plant kingdom too,
to say nothing of GMOs.
But then you can condense
it through the process
of making it into
flesh, and you're
talking about highly
concentrated levels
of these things.
>>BENDER: So it's physiology.
It isn't just that
I am responding
to the cruelty of animals,
which we are, and I am.
But it's truly-- it's
the way it has to be.
What's in that animal's body
becomes a part of our body
when we ingest it.
But there's a joyful
corollary to that, as well.
When we take care
of animals, we're
also taking care of ourselves.
When we walk our dogs
and give them exercise,
we're also getting exercise.
So the reciprocity
works both ways.
>>REGINA: Yes, it does.
And you mention in your
book that it's good for us
to be reminded of the word
"animal" and the source
of the word-- the original
root of the word "animal"
to begin our relationship
with this subject
and these wonderful beings.
>>BENDER: Yes.
Yes.
The root word of "animal,"
"anima," means "soul."
All life has soul.
I was doing an interview
with Deepak Chopra,
and he said, where do
you draw the line, Linda?
Where do you draw
the line with animals
having souls or whatever?
And I said, I don't.
All life is soul.
And if we go back to
the indigenous cultures,
this is an accepted fact.
All life is soul.
It cannot be otherwise,
in my experience.
>>REGINA: Yes, and I
would agree with you.
And there are people-- I
was having a conversation
with someone recently, in fact.
We were talking about
the notion of animals
having these spiritual
bonds with humans
and coming back because they
live such short lifespans
compared to our own and even
coming back within a lifetime
to be with an owner again.
And that's something many
people find intriguing.
I've had what I think is
that exact experience.
It was amazing.
And talk about it
from your perspective
and your own thoughts on it.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
Well, I hear this so much.
And since I've been on my book
tour, I hear it even more.
And I have a whole chapter
in the book that talks
about dying-- death and dying.
And animals, because of
their shorter life spans,
are often our first
experience with dying.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: And in all age
groups-- with children,
with adults, with the elderly.
So they help us.
They help.
Animals can be like a
bridge to the unknown.
And they, again,
live in a place--
they exist in a world-- that
is more connected to source.
So they are more trusting.
And while they are alive, even
though things don't necessarily
always go well in their lives,
as we know, they still trust.
And when it comes toward the
end of life, in my experience,
animals are more
comfortable with dying
because they trust life.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
They don't have-- I mean,
in the natural process,
there's not a big fear
of it as they age--
only if they're being hunted.
>>BENDER: Right.
And so if they trust
everything that
happens in life, because
it's part of source,
then why would they not continue
to trust what will happen
after they leave this realm?
And that is what I have seen.
And on so many
occasions, animals--
and in my life and career,
I've had many animals
die in my arms-- what
they've taught me about death
and dying is just amazing.
And I try to pass
that on to people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
The whole connection
to the other realms
they have that we have lost,
I find really interesting.
They have an awareness of the
finer frequencies around them
that humans lost
a long time ago.
And you talk about,
not only are they
here to help us learn
joy, but perhaps--
and I'd like you to
discuss that a bit--
but also, perhaps they can help
us learn to find our way back
to our own instincts
a little bit.
I watch my little
Bichon and she's
watching everything
going on-- and I've
had it corroborated
with people--
and she's just looking
at spooks all the time.
>>BENDER: Yes.
Well, again, there's
that connection
that we have closed down in
our contemporary culture.
But it's very easy
to get it back,
and I try to help
people do that.
And people often
say to me, I want
to communicate with my dog.
Are you an animal communicator?
And I say, let's look at the
life of St. Francis of Assisi.
He was deeply connected
to his intuitive
being-- to his spiritual being.
So the whole package includes
communicating with animals--
not only animals but trees
and plants and all beings--
>>REGINA: All life.
>>BENDER: --all life.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so what
about the joy part?
I know that you feel
very strongly that that's
part of their
position in our lives
is to help us find
our own joy again.
>>BENDER: Right because
we're miserable.
They're not.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
As a lot-- we're a
pretty miserable lot.
>>BENDER: We're a lot miserable.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
In addition to the
deep connection
that they teach us
about love, they
teach us the joy of aliveness.
That's my Linda-ism--
the joy of aliveness.
And so imagine on Monday
morning, we're getting ready.
We've got our to do list, and
we're dashing out the door.
And suddenly, we hear
a voice-- something--
a sweet melody up in the tree.
And for one moment, we're
seduced by that gorgeous melody
from the bird in
the tree singing out
the joy of just being alive.
>>REGINA: That's one of my
favorite meditations, actually,
is in the morning,
to sit very quietly
and then allow my
auditory perceptions
to expand beyond my
normal auditory range.
And it starts with the birds--
all the different birds
around the house.
And when you go expand,
and touch with that,
and bring that energy back
in, not only is it sublime,
it's extremely powerful.
>>BENDER: It's very
powerful and it also
does some-- it does two
things that are very
important to our reconnecting.
And number one,
we're immediately
connected to that
joy of aliveness.
But that also pulls us
into the present moment
because in the present
moment-- as animals well know
and where animals live-- is
the only time anything ever
happens.
It's the only time
anything ever happens,
is in the present moment.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: And we are so
often stuck in the past
or worrying about the future.
So animals can
help us-- bring us
into the moment where we
can actually, for a moment,
focus on being alive and living.
>>REGINA: And part of that
is the only-- as you say,
they don't have a
vertical access to source.
They're simply in the now,
in the midst of, and blended
with source all the time--
a different kind of soul
development.
>>BENDER: It is
very-- it's different.
And I can give you, from my
own personal experience--
again, when I was a child--
children are much more open.
They don't question.
And when I was a
child, I remember
listening to the birds.
And the birds-- all I can
say is they invited me
into their world.
And I was a scrawny,
funny little kid.
My dad called me nature girl,
and I was always out there
with the critters.
And they-- almost what
we would call today
an inter-species adoption.
Here was this little
thing looking for love
that I wasn't getting a whole
lot of, necessarily, indoors.
>>REGINA: In the human world.
>>BENDER: So there I was.
And they pulled me in.
And I remember
going into something
I knew nothing of
what was happening,
but it was more like
a meditative state--
being invited into their world.
And there, you lose a sense
of time and the separateness.
And it's--
>>REGINA: So you were in
their realm of the now.
>>BENDER: I was in
their consciousness.
So it is truly a
different frequency.
It is a consciousness.
>>REGINA: And what were
the qualities of it?
What it does feel like, besides
the timeless aspect of it?
>>BENDER: Well, I'll
tell you exactly.
And I think this is what
sparked my lifelong interest
in spirituality.
And I would say about eight
years ago, I was in California,
and I was participating
in this meditation group,
and we were doing some
advanced meditative techniques.
And what happens-- you
sometimes lose connection,
when you go into a different
level of consciousness,
where your body ends and the
rest of the world begins.
And so there's
almost a fuzziness--
a connection to all that goes--
>>REGINA: Like a
bleeding through.
Yeah.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
And that is distinctly
what I remember
happening to me as a child.
But it was just a
normal thing to me.
I didn't think of it
as strange or unusual.
So it's a different
consciousness.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Beyond
time, beyond space.
>>BENDER: Beyond time and
space, yet still very real.
It isn't necessarily that
we are off somewhere.
>>REGINA: Well, we always
wonder with cats, for example,
what are they doing?
You see their eyes
open, and they
appear to be contemplating.
And you wonder,
where is a cat going?
Where do they go, all
those hours a day?
>>BENDER: Yes.
Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's beautiful.
OK.
So you were also in Africa.
And before we
started the on camera
part of the conversation,
I want to ask you
what happened with
the lion, but you
said there was
another conversation
you had with some of the
native people there, right?
Or was it with an animal?
It was a specific message?
>>BENDER: Well, I
had all of these.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: Well, the
reason-- my book has
been gestating my whole life.
But the reason I actually
sat down to write this book
was because of an experience I
had in South Africa, about five
years ago, with a buffalo.
>>REGINA: Yes I remember that.
And is that what you were
referring to off camera?
>>BENDER: What I was
telling you about
was after I wrote the book,
I went back to South Africa.
And I wanted to-- although I'm
deeply connected to animals,
I wanted to go
even deeper, and I
wanted to understand
that connection
from the indigenous people.
And so I spent time--
>>REGINA: OK.
That's what I was referring to.
OK.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
I spent time with the San
people in the Kalahari Desert
of South Africa.
And they taught me to go even
deeper in how they connect
and how they respond.
It's just the way they live.
So that consciousness
that we were just
speaking about-- those people
still live in that world,
as the animals do.
And at the end of
the day, for example,
they would gather
at this tree which
contains an enormous,
multi-species bird
nest with, say,
hundreds of holes in it.
And all the birds
gather there at night.
And then the humans
And they all discuss what
went on in the bush that day.
And so the humans
are included in that.
The veil is not down.
They are communicating.
And they took me out and
deepened that connection.
And I felt very
satisfied until I then
finished that trip with a
journey with the Sangomas.
And I thought I was going
to be getting accolades
for all this great stuff
I had done in the book
and how connected I am, and they
set me straight immediately.
And this one amazing
Sangoma-- these
are the great teachers in
the tradition-- and the one
looked at me.
And she actually
took me aside to have
a one on one conversation.
And she said, if you want to
do the work that you are called
to do-- and you are-- you
had better deepen your love
and connection to the humans.
Well, I was shocked
because I didn't
think that that was
part of the journey,
and I didn't understand it.
And I have come now to
understand the wisdom of that,
because that is the
work I'm doing now.
Because if I cannot
teach the humans,
which is what I've been
called to do by the animals,
then what's the point?
>>REGINA: Yes.
They are their guardians.
>>BENDER: Yes.
And that's what I
was called to do.
The buffalo specifically--
and these are my words.
Most of my communications with
animals throughout my life
have not required words.
They have been nonverbal.
But at that point, I
was deeply connected,
and heard specifically, teach
the humans what you know.
And I knew that all the wisdom
and this wonderful knowledge
and experience that
I have with animals
is not just meant for me.
It's meant for everyone.
And it's so urgently needed now.
>>REGINA: So after you
got this message-- OK.
The buffalo had
given you a message.
You are to share what
you know with the people.
Now this Shaman tells
you-- and not just animals.
You need to learn to understand
and love your people.
>>BENDER: My people.
>>REGINA: Your people.
>>BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And now you're
on a book tour, right?
>>BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you have to
deal with a lot of people.
But what's happening--
you told me off camera--
is you're getting very
emotional responses from people.
Animals seem to be a
pathway to our heart.
Talk about this experience.
>>BENDER: Yes.
Of course I love
humans, but I have never
been quite as comfortable with
humans as I have naturally
been with animals.
And I was so inspired, through
the early months of my book
tour, by people who were
coming to me with such passion
and such love for
animals and the work,
and sharing my stories, which
is really what we all do.
We don't teach by preaching.
We teach by sharing our own
stories and our experiences,
and that's what I did.
And I've been so
inspired by the work
that just everyday people
are doing out in the world
to help animals.
And yet, they're broken.
They're shut down in fear.
They're worried.
They're concerned.
And so I was able to
help and inspire them
through the many different
aspects of my journey.
And I found what really
resonated with people
and still does, is how when
we advocate for animals,
and we put our hearts
and souls out there,
that we often shut down
at the critical time,
when our hearts are broken.
And what I'd share
with people is
that that's only part of the
story-- that what we need to do
and where we find our greatest
strength and our greatest
purpose in life is to follow
through that heartbreak.
And Rumi says it-- in
the ruin of heartbreak
is where we find a divine
passion that can wake the dead.
That's where we become strong.
And so I find that through
telling my stories--
empowering people to stay with
it, stay with your treasures,
stay with your gifts, and let
it come back the other end
and make you stronger and
more effective in your work.
So it's a direction that
I'm inspired by humans
to continue doing.
So the Sangomas were completely
accurate in what they
were-- they were calling me.
>>REGINA: And so how did all
this bridge over into working
with Rupert Sheldrake?
I mean, we know the
books he's written,
and especially the
one on how animals
know when their owners are
coming home, which is so true.
So what's happening
between you two?
>>BENDER: Well, the
stories continue to evolve.
Again, every day I'm
out dealing with people,
whether I'm traveling on an
airplane or wherever I am.
People become very
comfortable to tell me their,
quote, "unexplained" stories.
>>REGINA: Inexplicable
things animals do.
>>BENDER: Yeah-- intuitive
connections with animals.
And that is something that
Rupert Sheldrake and I
resonate together.
And there is documented
evidence that this does happen.
The intuitive connection between
humans and animals is real.
We don't understand
quite how it all works,
but we do have the stories,
and we do have the studies.
And Rupert has just
stellar human evidence,
and so does Dean Radin, not
necessarily with animals
but with humans-- Psi research.
"Entangled Minds" is
a perfect example.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
This is something-- I have
a friend staying at my home
right now who's been,
while I've been traveling
a lot, watching my little dogs.
And the little terrier mix
named Ernest-- she said,
it's amazing.
He's on the spot 20 minutes,
sitting at the little gate
waiting for me to come home.
Whether I've been
gone for an hour
or whether I've being gone for
10 days, he's there waiting.
>>BENDER: Yes.
Yeah.
Well, in Rupert's research
and in my lifelong experience
with animals, again,
we don't necessarily
know how it happens.
It's happening.
But what I call the
connection-- what the GPS is--
is the emotional bond.
It's love.
That is what the connection is.
And Rupert even said
the intuitive connection
happens so often.
Why doesn't it
happen all the time?
Why aren't animals always
finding their way home?
Well, we don't know the answer
to that, but what we do know
is that love is the attraction.
Love-- and I believe this to be
true-- love is the great force
that runs the universe.
>>REGINA: That is what
the entanglement is about.
It's those fields of
love, so to speak.
>>BENDER: Entanglement is.
And again, when
I was a child, it
was love that drew me
into my relationship
with those animals, and it
still is-- so that loving bond.
And when we open to that-- and
that is one of the great gifts.
I have a whole chapter
on that in my book,
about love, particularly dogs.
Dogs are the great
bodhisattvas--
the teachers of love.
I know one day I was in
my closet getting ready,
and in all my inefficiencies
and insecurity saying,
what am I going to wear?
What am I going to do?
This is terrible.
My hair is a mess.
Everything's a mess.
Why am I even getting
up in the morning?
And I turned around, and there
was my little dog Pepper,
who's on the cover
of the book, looking
at me with a cocked head.
Woman, you are the incarnation
of perfection to me.
What are you worrying about?
>>REGINA: Yes.
That is so true.
>>BENDER: So they teach
us we are good enough.
And again, in our daily
lives, in our work,
and in our soul's
calling, we can't
wait until we feel good
enough or wealthy enough
or secure enough in
our physical presence.
No.
In all our brokenness,
animals help
teach us to show up as we are.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, and they also teach
you to conquer fear.
Let's talk about your
bus ride in Indonesia.
>>BENDER: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: Held up at gunpoint
or some such thing, yeah?
>>BENDER: Animals have so
much to teach us about fear.
Because when our
hearts are broken open,
and we exist in a world
of love, and we're
leading an authentic life,
we lose some of that fear.
It's not that we're not
fearful, but we're not
afraid to look fear in the face.
>>REGINA: So what
happened to you?
>>BENDER: Well, this was many
years ago, but I was on a bus
and doing my thing.
It was a local bus, and I was
going from one little town
to another.
And so I was sitting there
by myself, reading a book.
I was about 3/4 of the
way back in the bus.
And I didn't speak the
language, but it didn't matter.
I knew where to
get on and get off.
And all of a sudden, I
looked up and people were
starting to get really nervous.
They started screaming.
Well, I looked up and
there, up by the bus driver,
was a man who pulled a gun.
And I didn't understand-- I
didn't know the language-- what
was going on.
But what I did notice is that
I was stuck in this seat.
There was nowhere I could go.
Everyone was
screaming around me.
And that gun happened to be
pointed right at my forehead.
And I suddenly
thought, oh my god.
Some immediate life review
needs to go on right now.
There was nothing I could do.
But interestingly enough,
what happened to me-- perhaps
it was because I couldn't do
anything-- the fight or flight
response didn't kick
in in full force.
But what did happen to me is I
had a thought, I may be gone.
This may be the end of my life.
What's the point?
And I was suddenly pulled into
an experience I had when I was
living in Africa years before,
riding in the bush with
my horse, Je t'aime.
And what happened during
that day-- and again,
it was not an out
of body experience.
I was in my body.
But we rode through the
bush at the end of the day,
and I let her rip.
She was running full force.
And I was on there
with her and so
taken in the joy of
aliveness of that moment.
It's everything you
want to experience
in a high moment of meditation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BENDER: It usually
happens out in the world
when you least expect it.
It happened to me that day.
And the joy was boundless.
What came to my mind while I was
sitting in that bus with a gun
pointed at my head was my
memory of being with Je t'aime.
And she had obviously crossed
over many years before,
but I do believe that her
spirit was there with me,
and we were sharing again
that precious moment.
And I thought to myself, well,
if this is the end of my life,
so be it.
>>REGINA: What a beautiful way
to experience such a normally
terrifying moment.
Obviously, it passed because
you're here with head--
with forehead.
>>BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now, I would like
you to share some of the dog--
everyone loves dog stories.
I want to hear a few of these
inexplicable kinds of stories--
for one is the
World War I story.
Can you talk about
that and share that?
>>BENDER: I love that
story because it happened.
It's real.
Now, can we explain it?
Absolutely not.
Is it documented?
Yes.
This is a story of a dog
by the name of Prince.
And Prince's owners
lived in London,
and it was during the time
of World War I. Prince's
owner, the father,
the husband was
called to the battlefields
for the war in France.
So he left.
And the dog afterward was
inconsolable-- stopped eating,
wouldn't do anything,
disappeared.
So the wife was beside herself,
looked everywhere for the dog,
could not find the dog.
So finally, about
two weeks later,
she sent by post a letter
to her husband saying,
I'm so sorry to tell
you, but Prince is gone.
Prince disappeared.
I'm so sorry.
She found out, by return,
post not to worry.
Prince is here with me.
That dog managed to find his
way from London to the coast,
to find passage across
the channel into France,
cross a battlefield filled
with a half million soldiers
in battle, found the owner.
>>REGINA: That's
just so beautiful.
It is almost unbelievable that
the senses can be that refined.
And I don't mean
the five senses.
>>BENDER: Exactly.
So what is the GPS?
>>REGINA: Yes-- love.
>>BENDER: It's love.
It's emotional bond.
>>REGINA: Let's
talk about Hector--
>>BENDER: Hector?
>>REGINA: --the
terrier companion
of Captain William Monte?
>>BENDER: Oh, well,
that's a similar example
of an animal who
was quite determined
and knew exactly-- it
was a ship's captain,
and the dog was always on
the ship with the captain.
Somehow missed the
boat, but somehow--
and this was,
again, documented--
got on the exact right ship
that would lead to the ship
that the dog missed--
retrieved his owner.
Yeah.
Astonished everyone.
And there were witnesses.
>>REGINA: I love it.
I mean, I love dog stories.
I love dogs.
OK.
So now let's hear a
little bit about Pepper.
You have a situation with
Pepper about the lying
on the couch thing, which
I think a lot of people
watching this can relate to,
especially if their dog shed.
It's like, don't you
go lay on the couch.
>>BENDER: Oh, sure.
Well, Pepper was smarter
than the average dog.
But all dogs are as
smart as they need to be.
>>REGINA: Yes-- to
get the job done.
>>BENDER: Exactly.
But the rule in my house
was, cats were allowed,
but dogs were not allowed
on the white sofa.
And so this was the rule.
Well, what I only
found out about a year
before Pepper passed,
from my two kids,
was that Pepper was
constantly on the white sofa.
But I never caught him--
never, ever caught him.
And now, my comings and
goings were never, ever--
>>REGINA: Wasn't
there any evidence?
>>BENDER: There was evidence
not on the sofa, because--
>>REGINA: No hair on the--
he left no signs of his--
>>BENDER: No.
I was completely ignorant
to this situation.
It went on,
apparently, for years.
>>REGINA: I could just see
it, as you close the door.
>>BENDER: Whenever I would come
home-- and he loved his bed.
You see, I guess I just
took it for granted
that he loved his bed so much,
it wasn't in my thought process
to start, oh, looking for hairs.
No.
Pepper always stayed in his bed.
>>REGINA: He obeys.
>>BENDER: Right.
But my son actually took a
photograph-- evidence for me.
And it was toward the
end of Pepper's life.
And there he was, sprawled
out on the white sofa.
Because I was the only
one that had the rule.
No one else cared.
So he didn't mind--
>>REGINA: His ears go like
this when mom's coming home.
>>BENDER: Right.
>>REGINA: Oops.
>>BENDER: And he actually took
a picture of Pepper sprawled out
on the sofa.
So he not only
knew that he needed
to move off the
sofa for me, he knew
it was quite fine when
everyone else came home,
that he could stay.
>>REGINA: Like you say, smart
enough to get the job done.
>>BENDER: Smart enough
to get the job done.
>>REGINA: One of the things
I love in YouTube videos are
when you see these
odd companions
and pairings of animals who
are normally mortal enemies
and such.
Tell us about what what's
actually going on there,
like, oh, can you believe that?
A bear or whatever and a dog.
>>BENDER: Well, I think animals
experience-- both companion
animals and in the wild--
they experience compassion.
They get it.
They have maternal instincts.
Look at elephants.
I mean, this happens
all the time.
On some level, beings know.
There's so many
stories of beings --
>>REGINA: Oh, like
the crow and the cat.
Probably everyone has
seen that one by now.
I mean, these things
get 20, 30 million hits.
We're so intrigued
with these pairings.
>>BENDER: Exactly.
We're so intrigued
by these stories
that seem out of the ordinary.
But are there?
>>REGINA: I don't know.
>>BENDER: Are they
out of the ordinary?
And that's, again,
what I'm trying
to do with my unexplained
powers of animals on my website.
I'm asking people to go there
and send in their stories.
Because what
mainstream science says
is paranormal-- psi experiences,
the intuitive connections-- all
these things-- they
call this paranormal.
In my experience and in
other scientists' experience,
this is not paranormal.
>>REGINA: It's normal.
>>BENDER: It is actually normal.
So gathering these stories
and working with them
and keeping this data
bank is just another way
of showing that this is normal.
>>REGINA: And we need
to just alert everybody
watching this right now.
You and Rupert are both
looking for really good stories
from people.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
Send them in.
You can go to my website,
and there's a specific place
to put them in.
And we love elephants so much.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
Oh, I love elephants.
>>BENDER: And I
work with elephants.
But they are a perfect example
of, look at elephants--
the compassionate they have.
I mean, they will walk
miles to go and visit
the bones, the remains,
of beloved family members
and how they are so
compassionate to one another.
>>REGINA: And to one another.
I was in Thailand
with some elephants
and watching-- this one
female had bonded with
and essentially taken
over guardianship
of another that had been
abused and was blind
and had been brought in.
And her lifetime
was seeing to it
as a seeing eye dog
for the other elephant.
She went nowhere alone.
And she would do what
she had to in the path
around this other one and
took such good care of her.
And this had been
going on for many years
by the time we arrived there.
>>BENDER: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Just such commitment--
such love and compassion
for each other and for humans.
I mean, even humans, in spite of
the things we've done to them.
>>BENDER: Right.
In spite of-- what elephants
never forget is love.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: And there
was also a recent study
done-- I laughed because I think
most little kids would know
this-- that all animals have
a personal understanding
of their own uniqueness.
But there was big
news that they found
that elephants understand
mirror-- what's called
mirror recognition tests.
So when an elephant, like a
human-- you look into a mirror,
you understand that that's you.
You recognize yourself.
And elephants would--
>>REGINA: Where dogs and
cats are, who's that?
>>BENDER: Well, but
actually-- yeah,
but the elephant takes
the trunk and tests
and obviously has
self recognition.
And they said oh my god.
This is so exciting.
Because mirror
recognition is considered
by science one of the
prerequisites for a being
to have a spiritual life.
And so I thought OK, science.
Great.
You're catching up.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
So learning from the spiritual
lives of animals-- I believe
that all animals do have that.
But even science is
now saying hey, look.
The elephants are capable of it.
>>REGINA: OK and on that
note, you also witnessed--
and you write
about the story-- I
think it was a squirrel
and a beagle, individually,
that had been hit by cars.
>>BENDER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about that
because we have
all witnessed this.
It's horrible when you
see the little bodies.
And some people have
accidentally hit them
in the country, and you just--
it's so hard to deal with.
>>BENDER: Yes.
I'm so glad you brought
that up because--
and people, again, come to me
about this specific problem
often.
And I can, again, tell you
my personal experience.
And as a veterinarian
and as a healer--
and I'm an empath--
my whole life,
this is one of the most
difficult lessons I ever
had to learn, was about what
I call the power of presence.
I am here to heal, to
save-- to save animals,
to rescue animals.
I was walking down the street
one day with friends, just
on a late afternoon walk.
And as we were turning on
the last leg of our walk,
I saw a car approaching.
I heard a woman scream.
I saw a young dog
bolting off her porch.
And then I realized, oh my god,
that animal-- that dog was-- I
held my breath.
I was too far away
to do anything,
but I was close
enough to witness it.
And the dog almost made
it across the street,
but it didn't.
And it flew up in the air--
it was horrible-- and landed.
So by then, I was running
over to the scene.
And I got there in time
to just scoop up the dog,
and it died in my
arms immediately.
And my two friends were
consoling the woman.
And it was quite awful.
And there was nothing
else I could do.
And I went home
that evening and I
thought-- because I am an empath
and I want to heal and rescue
as many animals as I can--
I couldn't figure out,
why was I there?
I was too far to
help and stop it,
but I was still there to witness
and feel the pain and grief
of this situation.
It seemed senseless to me.
And a few days later, a
similar experience happened.
And I was driving down the road.
A car in front of me
wasn't paying attention,
but a squirrel bolted
out into the road.
And I saw oh, no--
as squirrels do.
The woman didn't hit the brakes.
I don't know why.
Anyway, the squirrel was hit.
She kept going.
I stopped my car, as I always
do, in the middle of the road,
to get out and try
to do something.
As I jumped out of the
car, I got about, oh,
maybe six feet away
from the squirrel.
His back was to me.
It was still alive.
And I stood there
unsure what I could do.
And with that, the squirrel
twisted its body around,
and it faced me and stood up.
And its face-- this squirrel
looked at me right in the eyes.
And I tell you, Regina, I had
never seen the face of God
so clearly in front of me.
And I just gasped.
And the squirrel, with that,
fell over, and it was dead.
So I got the squirrel
off the street,
took it home, and buried it.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>BENDER: But what
I realized and what
was the powerful lesson
to be learned there--
and this is what we need to
understand-- the power of just
being there-- the
power of presence
is far more-- it's huge.
It is so much more
important than we realize.
We think that being
there isn't doing.
We're not there to do.
We're there to be with and
help another being crossover.
>>REGINA: Wow.
That's very powerful.
In your book, you give people--
it's kind of a tutorial,
as well, to tell us how
we can go into resonance.
We have 5 or 10
minutes left before we
need to get on to what you're
doing absolutely right now,
which you kind of mentioned
already-- you and Rupert.
But let's talk about-- people
are saying, how can I do that?
I want to know what my
dog's trying to tell me.
I'm saying that.
I want to know what Ernest
is trying to tell me.
>>BENDER: Sure.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about how
we begin the process of this.
>>BENDER: Right.
Well, the first thing we do is
develop a personal practice.
And what I tell
people all the time
and what I do-- I've been
a longtime meditator.
Because in order to
connect on a deeper level,
which is where we
really need to go--
and I believe that it
isn't only connecting more
with our animals.
It's connecting more with
all beings-- with each other.
It isn't only about
animal communication.
And to do that-- open that
process-- we have to go inward.
We have to consider
what's going on inside,
not what's going in
the outside world.
So we have to go in.
And I have a whole chapter
on exercises and things,
simple things, easy things
people can do to connect.
And the number one
thing that people can do
is relax, and close
your eyes, and go
into a private space
within yourself,
and pay attention to who's
paying attention, who's
listening, who's thinking
the thoughts, who's
having the experience.
>>REGINA: Well, see,
the thing is, those
are things that I'm very
comfortable with and such.
But I never actually--
for some dodo reason,
it never occurred to
me from that place.
Usually it's when you're
frustrated or confused.
Ernest, what are you
trying to tell me?
And so I wasn't
stopping to think,
just put that into
your meditation
and see what Ernest has to say.
>>BENDER: Right.
>>REGINA: So
something as simple--
because a lot of the people
watching right now do meditate.
>>BENDER: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: And I
think what we have
to remember is that we
get stuck in our heads.
And people say this to me a
lot-- I want to know what this,
and I want to be that,
I wanna understand
what my animal is saying.
I'm thinking, you're up here.
It's not going to
come from here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That's a very good point.
>>BENDER: It's like,
shut up and listen.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BENDER: So close down-- try.
I know the only people who
aren't thinking are dead.
But still, we
quiet the thoughts,
and we go into-- as
we do in deep prayer,
we go into a connection
that says, I'm here.
I'm simply here, showing up.
I am listening.
I am open in my heart.
And that's where you begin.
And that's when you
become magnetically
attractive to other beings.
And the more receptive
you are, then
the more willing other
beings are to attune to you.
>>REGINA: Do you
teach this to people?
>>BENDER: I teach
people all the time.
But I teach people to not pay
attention to communicating
with an animal.
I teach people to pay attention
to communicating with all life.
>>REGINA: Right.
Just to open their field to a
receptive state and then use
your dog or cat or whatever --
>>BENDER: Yes.
Yes.
Because I believe this is the
most important conversation
that people need to
have in the world today,
because it's-- the urgency
to switch our consciousness
to this awareness is critical
for the survival not only
of the animals that I advocate
for, but for all of us
for humans as well.
Because again, what we do to
the animals, we do to ourselves.
So that communication is
with all life-- all life.
>>REGINA: Right.
And often, people won't
take a proactive stance even
in their own life, settle
down enough to listen,
but often will be
motivated to do
so if they have some
kind of an issue going on
with their beloved animal.
>>BENDER: Yes.
And exactly.
And the perks are,
when you start
tuning in, you become
attractive to not only animals,
but to humans.
It isn't exclusive.
It's a package deal.
You tune in in a way
through your heart
that helps, on all levels,
communicating with all beings.
And you can get pretty
deep into it-- maybe
even sometimes deeper than
you may have bargained for.
>>REGINA: You might be
hearing too many voices.
>>BENDER: Right.
But that's what I teach.
And I am particularly
drawn to people
who want to go deeper to
lead a life of purpose
and express those deep
callings of the heart
and express that passion
and compassion into action
in the world.
That's what we--
>>REGINA: And so
toward that end,
just tell us where you're
going with your work.
You've already said
on your website, which
is LindaBender.org, right?
>>BENDER: LindaBender.org.
You can get hold of me and see
all the mischief I'm up to.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: --which
hopefully is a lot.
>>REGINA: And also send in our
stories about our animals--
the unique things we've
seen them do-- witnessed.
>>BENDER: Right.
Right.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BENDER: Because it's
important to bring this out.
We are evolving, all of us.
Whether we like it or
not, we are becoming
intuitive spiritual beings.
Because they go together.
When you're intuitive,
you are automatically
open to a more spiritual realm.
We're coming out of just
being physical mental beings.
>>REGINA: Five senses,
yeah-- coming out of that.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
Right.
>>REGINA: So before
we sign off, has there
been any kind of
shift in the messages
from the animal
kingdom as of late?
Do you see some kind
of shifts going on?
>>BENDER: Well, I do.
And I think that the
animals can no longer
live in blissful ignorance
of us in the wild.
And so they're trying
to connect with us.
Where before, they didn't
need to, now they are.
And there's an urgency.
There is an urgency
to not only--
we're making their
lives miserable,
but they see that we're making
our own lives miserable.
And that's why so much of
my work is helping-- yes,
I've worked many years in
the trenches with wildlife.
So I work toward that.
I also work right
here in this country
where we love our animals
and our dogs so much.
Euthanasia is the number one
form of death in healthy,
under two-year-old dogs
and cats in this country.
We euthanize about 9,000 a day.
We need to do
something about that.
It's not an animal problem.
It is a human problem.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
And on that note,
one final question.
And I think we did discuss
it in our last show.
How do you feel
about euthanizing
a dog who is suffering--
an elderly-- as
opposed to letting them go
through the whole process?
>>BENDER: Right.
Well I think, again, animals are
comfortable with passing over,
more so than we are.
But obviously, that's not
something we want to do.
But to put an animal out of
suffering at the very end--
yes.
I mean, I think it's
something that--
>>REGINA: It's humane.
>>BENDER: It's humane
and it's also--
what I always teach people
to do is, you must be there
with your animal.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>>BENDER: That's so important--
that's the power of presence--
being there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I think that's one of
the maybe saddest moments
of my entire life is my love
of my life dog from many years
ago was at the final stage.
And I had to take her in
because she had white gums.
She was bleeding
internally and all.
And the vet saw that I
was emotional and said,
I don't think you
should be here.
This was a number of years ago.
>>BENDER: Yeah.
That's different now.
>>REGINA: And so I
backed out of the room.
And it's haunted me
forever because she
turned back and looked
at me and was frantic.
And that's frozen
in my being forever.
I would never,
ever do that again.
>>BENDER: Right.
But you know she forgave you.
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>BENDER: Of course.
She was the most loving little
being I think I've ever met.
>>BENDER: That's right.
>>REGINA: So yeah.
>>REGINA: Well, on
that note, thank
you so much for the work
you do and for sharing
this gentle and loving story of
communion between these realms
with us.
I really appreciate it, Linda.
>>BENDER: Thank you.
May I say one final thing?
>>REGINA: Sure, you may.
>>BENDER: I say it all the time.
I say it in my book.
Please, everyone, do
something from your heart
to help animals.
And don't be afraid to
make a lot of noise.
>>REGINA: OK.
Thank you.
>>BENDER: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Again, the name of
the book is "Animal Wisdom,"
and it can be found on Linda's
site at LindaBender.org,
or you can go to
major booksellers.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]